Dear valued Shareholders,

 

I am delighted to present to you our 32nd Annual Report for Financial Year (FY) 2021- 22. This year has been a remarkable year for all of us here at Persistent. We emerged more resilient and reinvigorated, and our confidence in our capabilities is reflected not only in our numbers but also in the trust that our clients have placed in us. I am grateful to our clients, partners, team members, and other stakeholders for their relentless collaboration to make this happen.

Last year, we were able to steer through the challenges of the unpredictable market conditions effectively and achieve strong growth. We did this by aligning to our clients’ vision, focusing relentlessly on growth, and maintaining a strong operational rigour. This is a testament to the unwavering determination of our teams to help our clients succeed in their respective industries.
During the year, we acquired SCI, Fusion 360, Sureline, Shree Partners, Data Glove and Media Agility. I welcome these new members to the Persistent family. These teams have enhanced our capabilities and have ensured that we remain on the cutting edge of technology.

We have been growing at an incredible pace over the last four quarters. We added more than 4,900 new team members to the Persistent family and strengthened our leadership team to fuel the next wave of growth. With our strong belief in upgrading the skill quotient of our teams, Persistent University has successfully trained 11,000 team members on various skills to contribute to their career growth. Our investments in platforms, tools, and training are focused on strengthening the capabilities of our teams.

We have adopted the hybrid working model and have allowed new people engagement norms to emerge. We believe that it is not about work-life balance or work-life integration anymore. It is about Work-life Harmony. We know that one size does not fit all, and hence we are creating multiple avenues for our people to unleash their potential by taking control of their personal health and well-being — physical, emotional, social, and financial.

While the pandemic caused unprecedented disruptions, it also taught us some lifechanging lessons. We learnt the importance of protecting our family, our communities, and the world at large. As a result, we embarked on extensive outreach programs and practices to connect with our clients, suppliers, and vendors, always assuring them of our unwavering support. The circumstances have pushed us to rise above and beyond our own limitations and to align our sustainability agenda with our business and technological transitions and organizational growth. Today, our business approach includes a holistic, sustainable strategy aimed at providing long-term value for our stakeholders.

Our CSR activities, environmental initiatives, and ethical corporate governance are focused on delivering our environmental, social and governance (ESG) responsibilities. I am proud of the progress we have made so far in providing sustainable solutions for our communities around healthcare, education, and community development. However, we still have a long road ahead to ensure a better and brighter future for our next generations. As we enter our fourth decade as a sustainable business, we are thrilled to embark on this journey with our people, our families, and the communities we serve.

Giving back to the society has never been more important, and I’d like to thank each member of the Persistent family for their active support and unshakable trust in our abilities to deliver on our promise. You have motivated us to unleash our potential for the next phase of our growth.